In this section, we'll continue to talk about conversions.
But in this case,
we'll look at goals that are themselves based on time.
In the previous courses,
we looked at goal configuration.
The types of goals we've considered so far had been action goals,
goals based on a specific user interaction.
Action goals can be either destination goals,
when a user reaches a certain page,
or a goal based on an event.
You could configure action goals for lead submission,
newsletter sign-up, or video completion.
The two other types of goals that you can configure are sometimes referred to as
engagement goals because they're not about a specific user interaction,
instead, they represent a threshold of engagement.
These engagement goals are most often suitable for publisher models.
Engagement goals can be based on either session duration or pages per session.
Back in the test view of the org test account.
If we click on Goals,
New Goal, we can configure a duration based goal.
We'll call this goal session greater than five minutes.
Select Duration as the type, continue,
Duration greater than five minutes.
With this goal configured,
we could use it to evaluate any of our session scope dimensions.
For instance, in the channels report,
we can see how the different channels are performing in terms of session duration,
and specifically meeting the session greater than five-minute goal.
Again, we want to keep in mind that a goal based on session duration
or pages per session would be more suitable for a publisher model,
than any transactional or e-commerce model.
We also want to remember not to take the goal completely literally,
because GA may not always be able to calculate the exact session duration.
But the session duration and goal
calculation are handled the same for all of our channels.
Therefore, we can use this goal as a co-operative metric to evaluate channel performance.